The Duomo, officially Cattedrale di Santa Maria del
Fiore, is the fourth largest church in Europe, with the
biggest brickwork dome in the world
Europe > Italy > Central Italy > Tuscany > Florence (province) > Florence
²
For other places with the same name, see Florence (disambiguation).
Florence (Italian: Firenze) is the capital of the region of Tuscany in Italy, with a population of about
367,000 (2022). The city is a cultural, artistic and architectural gem, and is inscribed on the UNESCO
World Heritage list. The birthplace of the Italian Renaissance, Florence was the home to powerful
families, creative geniuses and scientific masterminds who left their legacies in the city's many museums
and art galleries. The city also has a very rich literary history, being the birthplace of the famous poet
Dante, and standard Italian today is primarily based on the dialect of Tuscan spoken in Florence.
Politically, economically, and culturally,
Florence was the most important city in
Europe for around 250 years, from some time
before 1300 until the early 1500s. It is now
primarily a tourist site, with the much of its
non-touristic economy powered by artisans
who still nonetheless sell largely to tourist and
foreign customers.
In the middle ages, Florentines reinvented
money, in the form of the gold florin. This
currency was the engine that drove Europe out
of the Dark Ages, a term invented by Petrarch,
a Florentine whose family had been exiled to
Arezzo. They financed the development of
industry all over Europe, from Britain to
Bruges, Lyon and Hungary. They financed the English kings during the Hundred Years' War. They
financed the papacy, including the construction of the papal palace in Avignon, and the reconstruction of
St. Peter's and the Vatican when the papacy returned to Rome from the "Babylonian captivity".
Dante, Petrarch, and Boccaccio pioneered the use of the vernacular — the use of a locally spoken
language, rather than Latin. In their case, the vernacular was Tuscan, which, because of them, became the
lingua franca for the entire Italian peninsula, and eventually the basis for standard Italian following
unification in 1871. Because Dante, et al., wrote in Tuscan, Geoffrey Chaucer, who spent a lot of time in
Florence
Understand

