View of Naples and Mount Vesuvius from Sant'Elmo Castle
Europe > Italy > Southern Italy > Campania > Metropolitan Naples > Naples
For other places with the same name, see Naples (disambiguation).
Naples (Italian: Napoli; Neapolitan: Napule) in Italy is an ancient port on the Mediterranean sea. With
just short of a million citizens, is the third most populous municipality. Metropolitan Naples is one of
Italy's largest metropolitan areas, at three million citizens.
“See Naples and then die!
"Vide Napule e po' muore!"
”A famous proverb, saying that one can
die peacefully after seeing the
unparalleled beauty of Naples.
Famously quoted by Johann Wolfgang
von Goethe in his travel diary Italian
Journey.
Naples represents one of the oldest
continuously-inhabited cities in the
world and a UNESCO World Heritage
site with an unmatched heritage as a
place of exchange between cultures.
This is reflected in the city's structure
and monuments, which are a mixture
of Greek, Roman, Norman, Angevin,
Spanish and French architecture. The UNESCO evaluation committee described Naples' historic centre
the largest in Europe – as being "of exceptional value", and went on to say that Naples' setting on its Bay
"gives it an outstanding universal value which has had a profound influence". But Italians have known
these things for centuries: The view of Naples from the sea is so beautiful that a traditional Italian saying
states that once you've seen it, you can die.
As a testimony to its extraordinary history, the Naples region hosts an unparalleled concentration of
UNESCO World Heritage sites: the Center of Naples itself; the Roman archaeological sites of Pompeii,
Herculaneum, Cumae, Pozzuoli, Oplontis and Stabiae; the Royal Palace of Caserta; the royal site of San
Leucio and the Aqueduct of Vanvitelli. It is close to Vesuvius, the only active volcano on the European
continent and a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve. Paestum's Greek temples and the Amalfi Coast are possible
day trips, as are the islands of Capri, Ischia and Procida in the Bay of Naples.
Naples
Understand

